=head1 NAME

Test::Tarantool16 - The Swiss army knife for tests of Tarantool 1.6 related Perl and lua code.

=head1 VERSION

Version 0.033


=cut

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Test::Tarantool16;
    use AnyEvent;

    # Clear data and exit on Ctrl+C.
    my $w = AnyEvent->signal (signal => "INT", cb => sub { exit 0 });

    my @shards = map {
        my $n = $_;
        Test::Tarantool16->new(
            host => '127.17.3.0',
            initlua => do {
                          open my $f, '<', 'init.lua';
                          local $/ = undef;
                          <$f> or "";
                       },
            on_die => sub { warn "Shard #$n unexpectedly terminated\n"; exit; },
        );
    } 1..4;

    my @cluster = map { [ $_->{host}, $_->{p_port} ] } @shards;

    {
        my $cv = AE::cv();
        $cv->begin for (@shards);
        $_->start($cv) for (@shards);
        $cv->recv;
    }

    {
        $_->sync_start() for (@shards);
    }

    {
        my ($status, $reason) = $shards[0]->sync_ro();
        die $reason unless $status;
        print (($shards[0]->sync_admin_cmd("show info"))[1]);
    }

    # Some test case here

    $shards[1]->pause();

    # Some test case here

    $shards[1]->resume();

    {
        my ($status, $reason) = $shards[0]->sync_rw();
        die $reason unless $status;
        print (($shards[0]->sync_admin_cmd("show info"))[1]);
    }

    # stop tarantools and clear work directoies
    @shards = ();

=head1 SUBROUTINES/METHODS

=head2 new option => value,...

Create new Test::Tarantool16 instance. Every call of new method increase counter, below
called as I<tarantool number> or I<tn>.

=over 4

=item root => $path

Tarantool 1.6 work directory. Default is I<./tnt_E<lt>10_random_lowercase_lettersE<gt>>

=item arena => $size

The maximal size of tarantool arena in Gb. Default is I<0.1>

=item cleanup => $bool

Remove tarantool work directory after garbage collection. Default is I<1>

=item initlua => $content

Content of init.lua file. Be default an empty file created.

=item host => $address

Address bind to. Default: I<127.0.0.1>

=item port => $port

Primary port number. Default is I<3301+E<lt>tnE<gt>*4>

=item admin_port => $admin_port

Admin port number. Default is C<$port * 10>

=item title => $title

Part of process name (custom_proc_title) Default is I<"yatE<lt>tnE<lt>">

=item wal_mode => $mode

The WAL write mode. See the desctiption of wal_mode tarantool variable. Default
is I<none>. Look more about wal_mode in tarantool documentation.

=item log_level => $number

Tarantool log level. Default is I<5>

=item snapshot => $path

Path to some snapshot. If given the symbolic link to it will been created in
tarantool work directory.

=item replication_source => $string

If given the server is considered to be a Tarantool replica.

=item logger => $sub

An subroutine called at every time, when tarantool write some thing in a log.
The writed text passed as the first argument. Default is warn.

=item on_die => $sub

An subroutine called on a unexpected tarantool termination.

=item tarantool_cmd => $tarantool_cmd

Command that should start tarantool instance. Parameterized with %{args}.
All necessary arguments will be substitued into %{args}

=back


=cut

=head2 start option => $value, $cb->($status, $reason)

Run tarantool instance.

=over 4

=item timeout => $timeout

If not After $timeout seconds tarantool will been killed by the KILL signal if
not started.

=back


=cut

=head2 stop option => $value, $cb->($status, $reason)

stop tarantool instance

=over 4

=item timeout => $timeout

After $timeout seconds tarantool will been kelled by the KILL signal

=back


=cut

=head2 pause

Send STOP signal to instance


=cut

=head2 resume

Send CONT signal to instance


=cut

=head2 admin_cmd $cmd, $cb->($status, $response_or_reason)

Exec a command via the admin port.


=cut

=head2 times

Return values of utime and stime from /proc/[pid]/stat, converted to seconds


=cut

=head2 sync_start sync_stop sync_admin_cmd

Aliases for start, stop, admin_cmd respectively, arguments a similar,
but cb not passed.


=cut

=head1 AUTHOR

Anton Reznikov, C<< <anton.n.reznikov at gmail.com> >>
igorcoding, C<< <igorcoding at gmail.com> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests in L<https://github.com/igorcoding/Test-Tarantool16/issues>


=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

    perldoc Test::Tarantool16

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

    Mons Anderson    - The original idea of the module.

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2015 igorcoding.

This program is released under the following license: GPL


=cut

